Now before we move on to other features,
there's one last thing I wanna do with this if field.
And for that I'll go back to step level.
We got this caching step,
and currently what we're doing here
is we're caching this global npm cache folder
and they offer this as restored when we have it cached
and the dependencies didn't change,
and therefore this npm ci step will be a bit faster
because it will use this internally managed npm cache.
It would be even faster though
if it would cache the entire node modules folder
which is the local folder
with all the dependencies of this project installed.
And we would not even run the npm ci step
if we restored that folder.
Because skipping this step
also skips all the setup work
related to that step and skips the part
where npm internally checks whether it has its cache folder.
So therefore we can speed up this workflow,
this job and all the other jobs that use caching,
by not cashing this global npm folder
but instead the local node modules folder.
And now I wanna skip this step here,
this install dependencies step,
if we successfully used our cache.
Now to do that, we can add a if condition
to this installed dependencies step.
And now we just did a way of finding out
whether we successfully got data from the cache,
so if we had a cache hit as it's called.
Now if we take a look at this cache action
which we're using at the official documentation,
we learned that this action actually has an output,
the cache hit field, which is a boolean value,
so true or false, that indicates whether we had a match,
so whether the cache was used.
And therefore we can look at this output
and use that as the condition or in the condition
of the install dependencies step.
Now, I did already add an ID to this cache dependencies step
so that we can get data from that step with help of that ID.
And we can therefore use this steps context object
use the cache step, so the step with this ID here,
the cache ID,
and then here dive into the outputs field.
And now it's not an output set by us,
with this set output command you learned about
earlier in the course,
but instead now it's an output of this action
which is executed in this step
and that output is the cache-hit output.
And here we simply check if that's not equal to true.
Now I'm wrapping this in single quotes
because it's actually converted to a string
in this steps context object
so therefore I'm checking for the string value.
And I'm checking if it's not true,
because if it isn't true,
if we were not able to use the cache
then I wanna manually install the dependencies again.
If on the other hand we had a cache hit, so if this is true
then this step will be skipped with this condition.
And now we can use this setup in all the places
where we use the cache and install dependencies
to always use this extra if condition
and store node modules instead of this npm folder.
So I'll do this in all these places here.
And with that done, we can of course stage these changes
and create a new commit, optimized cache and push this,
and what you'll notice now
is of course that as this executes
it's the first time that we're caching node modules.
So therefore, in test and lint, which run in parallel,
they both don't have node modules cached initially
therefore they install the dependencies.
This step is not skipped but executed
because dependencies were not cached before
but the next time we run this, the cache will be used.
Now since I haven't fixed my testing code yet
we don't see this yet because build and deploy were skipped,
otherwise the cache would've been used in these steps.
But we will see it if we rerun this job,
however, I will take this opportunity
and fix my test here by readding this
A, to make sure that in the future
we always execute all these dependent jobs.
So now here.
I've fixed my tests and I will push this.
And with that done, we will see that now
this entire chain will execute,
therefore, report will not execute anymore by the way,
and we will see that now the cache is used
now even in these first jobs already
because it was cached previously.
So here the cache was received
and therefore, as you can see install dependencies
was skipped because of our if check.
And I wanted to show this example to you
because that's never thing where you can use if checks,
and this also shows you that you're not limited
to using them only for checking for failure.
Here we're not checking for failure at all
we're just checking which result was produced
by another step, and depending on that
we either execute that step or not.
And here, by the way, as mentioned,
you also see that report was skipped
because all jobs succeeded
and therefore the condition of report was not met
because the condition of report
is that at least one job failed,
which was not the case here.